
=head1 NAME

perl2web - documentation for perltidy -html

=head1 PERLTIDY HTML DOCUMENTATION

This document explains perltidy options available for outputting perl
scripts in html format.  For other perltidy options, see the perltidy
man page, or go to the home page at http://perltidy.sourceforge.net.

Please note that the B<-html> flag is the "master switch" which tells
perltidy to write output in html; without it, the html formatting
parameters described here will all be ignored.  Also please note that at
present perltidy is either in "html mode" or "beautification mode", but
not both, so it does not do any indentation or formatting when the
B<-html> option is used.  The input file is decorated with HTML tags but
otherwise left unchanged.  Therefore any indenting or reformatting must
be done in a preliminary separate run without the B<-html> switch.

This documentation has been split from the rest of the perltidy
documentation because it is expected that the perltidy -html capability
will eventually be spun off into a new, independent program, to allow it
to grow more easily.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    perltidy -html [ other options ] file1 file2 file3 ...
            (output goes to file1.html, file2.html, file3.html, ...)
    perltidy -html [ other options ] file1 -o outfile
    perltidy -html [ options ] file1 -st >outfile
    perltidy -html [ options ] <infile >outfile

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Perltidy -html reads a Perl script and writes an a copy suitable for
viewing with a web browser.

For a quick introduction, see L<"EXAMPLES">. 

For a complete description of the command line parameters, see L<"OPTIONS">. 

=head1 EXAMPLES

  perltidy -html somefile.pl

This will produce a file F<somefile.pl.html> containing the script with
html markup.  The output file will contain an embedded style sheet in
the <HEAD> section which may be edited to change the appearance.

  perltidy -html -css=mystyle.css somefile.pl

This will produce a file F<somefile.pl.html> containing the script with
html markup.  This output file will contain a link to a separate style
sheet file F<mystyle.css>.  If the file F<mystyle.css> does not exist,
it will be created.  If it exists, it will not be overwritten.

  perltidy -html -pre somefile.pl

Write an html snippet with only the PRE section to F<somefile.pl.html>.
This is useful when code snippets are being formatted for inclusion in a
larger web page.  No style sheet will be written in this case.  

  perltidy -html -ss >mystyle.css

Write a style sheet to F<mystyle.css> and exit.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item  The B<-html> master switch

The flag B<-html> causes perltidy to write an html file with extension
F<.html>.  So, for example, the following command

	perltidy -html somefile.pl

will produce a syntax-colored html file named F<somefile.pl.html>
which may be viewed with a browser.

B<Please Note>: In this case, perltidy does not do any formatting to the
input file, and it does not write a formatted file with extension
F<.tdy>.  This means that two perltidy runs are required to create a
fully reformatted, html copy of a script.  

=item	B<-oext>=ext,    B<--output-file-extension>=ext  

Change the extension of the output file to be F<.ext> instead of the
default F<.html>.

=item  The B<-pre> flag for code snippets

When the B<-pre> flag is given, only the pre-formatted section, within
the <PRE> and </PRE> tags, will be output.  This simplifies inclusion
of the output in other files.  The default is to output a complete
web page.

=item  The B<-nnn> flag for line numbering

When the B<-nnn> flag is given, the output lines will be numbered.

=item  Style Sheets

Style sheets make it very convenient to control and adjust the
appearance of html pages.  The default behavior is to write a page of
html with an embedded style sheet.

An alternative to an embedded style sheet is to create a page with a
link to an external style sheet.  This is indicated with the
B<-css=filename>,  where the external style sheet is F<filename>.  The
external style sheet F<filename> will be created if and only if it does
not exist.  This option is useful for controlling multiple pages from a
single style sheet.

To cause perltidy to write a style sheet to standard output and exit,
use the B<-ss>, or B<--stylesheet>, flag.  This is useful if the style
sheet could not be written for some reason, such as if the B<-pre> flag
was used.  Thus, for example,
  
  perltidy -html -ss >mystyle.css

will write a style sheet with the default properties to file
F<mystyle.css>.

The use of style sheets is encouraged, but a web page without a style
sheets can be created with the flag B<-nss>.  Use this option if you
must to be sure that older browsers (roughly speaking, versions prior to
4.0 of Netscape Navigator and Internet Explorer) can display the
syntax-coloring of the html files.

=item  Controlling HTML properties

Syntax colors may be changed from their default values by flags of the either
the long form, B<-html-color-xxxxxx=n>, or more conveniently the short form,
B<-hcx=n>, where B<xxxxxx> is one of the following words, and B<x> is the
corresponding abbreviation:

      Token Type             xxxxxx           x 
      ----------             --------         --
      comment                comment          c
      number                 numeric          n
      identifier             identifier       i
      bareword, function     bareword         w
      keyword                keyword          k
      quite, pattern         quote            q
      here doc text          here-doc-text    h
      here doc target        here-doc-target  hh
      punctuation            punctuation      pu
      parentheses            paren            p
      structural braces      structure        s
      semicolon              semicolon        sc
      colon                  colon            co
      comma                  comma            cm
      label                  label            j
      sub definition name    subroutine       m
      pod text               pod-text         pd

A default set of colors has been defined, but they may be changed by providing
values to any of the following parameters, where B<n> is either a 6 digit 
hex RGB color value or an ascii name for a color, such as 'red'.

To illustrate, the following command will produce an html 
file F<somefile.pl.html> with "aqua" keywords:

	perltidy -html -hck=00ffff somefile.pl

and this should be equivalent for most browsers:

	perltidy -html -hck=aqua somefile.pl

Perltidy merely writes any non-hex names that it sees in the html file.
The following 16 color names are defined in the HTML 3.2 standard:

	black   => 000000,
	silver  => c0c0c0,
	gray    => 808080,
	white   => ffffff,
	maroon  => 800000,
	red     => ff0000,
	purple  => 800080,
	fuchsia => ff00ff,
	green   => 008000,
	lime    => 00ff00,
	olive   => 808000,
	yellow  => ffff00
	navy    => 000080,
	blue    => 0000ff,
	teal    => 008080,
	aqua    => 00ffff,

Many more names are supported in specific browsers, but it is safest
to use the hex codes for other colors.  Helpful color tables can be
located with an internet search for "HTML color tables". 

Besides color, two other character attributes may be set: bold, and italics.
To set a token type to use bold, use the flag
B<-html-bold-xxxxxx> or B<-hbx>, where B<xxxxxx> or B<x> are the long
or short names from the above table.  Conversely, to set a token type to 
NOT use bold, use B<-nohtml-bold-xxxxxx> or B<-nhbx>.

Likewise, to set a token type to use an italic font, use the flag
B<-html-italic-xxxxxx> or B<-hix>, where again B<xxxxxx> or B<x> are the
long or short names from the above table.  And to set a token type to
NOT use italics, use B<-nohtml-italic-xxxxxx> or B<-nhix>.

For example, to use bold braces and lime color, non-bold, italics keywords the
following command would be used:

	perltidy -html -hbs -hck=00FF00 -nhbk -hik somefile.pl

The background color can be specified with B<-html-color-background=n>,
or B<-hcbg=n> for short, where n is a 6 character hex RGB value.  The
default color of text is the value given to B<punctuation>, which is
black as a default.

Here are some notes and hints:

1. If you find a preferred set of these parameters, you may want
to create a F<.perltidyrc> file containing them.  See the perltidy man
page for an explanation.

2. Rather than specifying values for these parameters, it may be easier
to accept the defaults and then edit a style sheet.  The style sheet
contains helpful comments which should make this easy.

3. The syntax-colored html files can be very large, so it may be best to
split large files into smaller pieces to improve download times.

4. The list of token types is expected to evolve over time as further
tokenizer improvements allow a refinement in the available token types,
so you should occasionally check for updates to this program if you use
it frequently.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

perltidy(1)

=head1 VERSION

This man page documents perltidy version 20020214.

=head1 AUTHOR

  Steven L. Hancock
  email: perltidy at users.sourceforge.net
  http://perltidy.sourceforge.net

Bug reports and suggestions for new features are always welcome.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2000-2002 by Steven L. Hancock

=head1 LICENSE

This package is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the "GNU General Public License".

Please refer to the file "COPYING" for details.

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This package is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the "GNU General Public License" for more details.
