=head1 Welcome to Perltidy!

Perltidy is a tool to indent and reformat perl scripts.  It can also
write scripts in html format.

Perltidy is free software released under the GNU General Public
License -- please see the included file "COPYING" for details.

=head1 PREREQUISITES

C<perltidy> should work with most standard Perl installations.
The following modules are not required, but perltidy may use them if
detected:

  HTML::Entities  will be used to encode HTML entities if detected
  Pod::Html will be used to format pod text

The total disk space needed after removing the installation directory will
about 2 Mb.  

=head1 DOWNLOAD

There are two source distribution files:

=over 4

=item *

A F<.tgz> "tarball", with Unix-style <lf> line endings, and 

=item *

A zip file, F<.zip>, with Windows-style <cr><lf> line endings.

=back

In addition, the web site has links to debian and RPM packages.

=head1 INSTALLATION

For most standard installations, the standard Makefile.PL method should work:

 perl Makefile.PL
 make
 make test
 make install

The INSTALL file has additional installation notes, and tells how
to use perltidy without doing an installation.

=head1 WHAT NEXT

Please see the CHANGES file for notices of any recent updates.

Please see the BUGS file for a list of all known open bugs.

Documentation can be found in the F<docs> directory, and it can also be 
found at http://perltidy.sourceforge.net

Reading the brief tutorial should help you use perltidy effectively.  

=head1 FEEDBACK / BUG REPORTS

A list of current bugs and issues can be found at the CPAN site L<https://rt.cpan.org/Public/Dist/Display.html?Name=Perl-Tidy>

To report a new bug or problem, use the link on this page .  
